## Course Project for Getting and Cleaning Data

### Objective:

The purpose of this project was to demonstrate my ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal was to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. 


### Project Description:

One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full [description](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones ) is available at the site where the data was obtained.

Here are the [data](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip ) for the project.


### Contained Files:

This repository contains the following files: 

1. **run_analysis.R** : an R script that does the following:
  - Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
  - Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
  - Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.
  - Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
  - Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
2. **tidy.txt** : the tidy data set generated by run_analysis.R
3. **CodeBook.md** : a code book that describes the variables, the data, and all transformations and work performed to clean up the data.  
